So, Greg, uh thank you for coming back
here. Um
I don't think we ever charged you for
rent. So, uh maybe we'll send you an
invoice later. But, uh Greg, you've been
part of like two really spectacular
companies, Stripe as employee number
four, and then the first CTO. I just
recently heard that they process 1.6
billion, sorry, 1.6% of the
global GDP. You must be proud of that.
That's amazing. You must be even more
proud of the fact that OpenAI has almost
a billion or maybe more than a billion
uh in weekly active users at this point.
I mean, it's all it's all very exciting.
It shows you what technology can do. And
uh you're not just co-founder and
president, but you're also chief
builder.
At OpenAI, I heard that that was one of
your titles. I'm not sure if it was ever
an official title, but I've been called
many things. Let's just say that.
Well, you have a audience of great
builders here, so we'll start from all
the way at the bottom of the stack. You
OpenAI has multiple stacks of the
business, one of which is compute, and
you guys have been very aggressive, very
aggressive on securing compute. Why is
that?
Well, in many ways, we have a very
simple business.
We
buy, rent, build compute,
and we resell it at a margin.
That's it. As long as the margin's
positive, then you want to scale it
because the demand for
solving problems, the demand for
intelligence, that's unlimited.
And the AIs that we have right now
really are able to rise to the challenge
of effectively any kind of problem that
you want to throw at them. Do you have
enough compute? No.
Really?
Yeah, definitely not.
>> just with Matt Garman, and he says the
GPU compute availability
in 2026 rounds to zero. Don't you guys
have all of it? I mean, we have we we
would love more. We're we're constantly
out there hunting for more, honestly.
And I'll tell you like when we first
launched when we launched ChatGPT,
I remember being on a call with my team,
and they're like, all right, how much
computer should we buy?
And I said, all of it.
And they're like, no, no, no, we're
seriously, like like come on, how much
should we buy? I'm like, no matter how
fast we try to ramp compute, I guarantee
you we're not going to be able to keep
up with demand and that has been true
ever since.
Um, that's that's fascinating. Moving up
from compute since I don't know if much
of this audience can help you with
securing more compute
um because most of them are founders of
startups. Um, about architecture and
scaling laws, what are the
what are the where are we in the scaling
laws? Are they still doubling each year?
Are you changing architecture? What's
what is
what are you guys pushing on the
frontier on the research side? Well, I
would say first of all, the scaling laws
are a deep and very beautiful mystery.
Right? They feel deeply fundamental.
It's like the scientific truth that just
like you think about physics and you
know, Newton's laws and things like
that, they're somehow this truth of the
universe.
And they're empirical. Like we don't
necessarily have all the theory to
explain exactly why it works, but to me
the most beautiful thing is that neural
networks
were really designed like in the 1940s
before there were computers.
And somehow we've been able to take the
exact ideas that were developed back
then and apply increasing amounts of
computation and as you pour more compute
into the models, they get
correspondingly more capable and it just
keeps going. There's no wall.
And that's I think that's a beautiful
thing.
That's pretty beautiful. Are there more
research or more algorithms that are in
the works that because
you know, in the past we had neural
networks to your point in 1940s, but we
couldn't we didn't have the computer for
it. Now that we have the computer for
it, you just where are we just pushing
the same things or are there new
architectures and new ideas coming up?
Yeah, so I would I would think of it as
we we absolutely have new ideas that are
constantly powering what we do. It's
very simplified to say, well, let's take
a neural network from the 1940s and, you
know, put put it in a gigawatt data
center, right? We have made tons of
innovations and we constantly are
improving things. And sometimes these
are micro tweaks. Like you just realize
that the way you've been formatting data
was not quite right and that can
actually be a very big deal. Sometimes
it's larger. You think about the shift
from the LSTM to the transformer and I
don't think the transformer is, you
know, like everyone's moved past the
transformer as described in the other
2018 paper.
So, there's there's constant innovation
happening and I think of places that
have been perhaps the most invested in
long-term research on how to improve the
architectures, how to improve the
fundamental algorithms, and how to get
the paradigm shifts. I think OpenAI has
been leading the pack there and that's
something we continue to invest in and I
see lots of fruit on the horizon. Got
it.
And on the models, um
Does OpenAI have a formal definition for
AGI? Are we close? Are we not close? I
Pat and Sam and Ilya published this
thing that we are at AGI
functionally.
Do you agree with that? Do you not agree
with that? Well, we do have a formal
definition, but to some extent I one
thing I have learned is that everyone
has their own intuitions about what AGI
is and maybe you can view it as like
according to my view of where we are, I
think we're about 80% of the way there
in that we have models that are smart.
They're very capable. They're able to if
you give Are they smarter than you?
I mean, I they're certainly more capable
than I am at writing software, right? If
you give it all the context, then yes, I
I I think that they are they're just so
capable. It's it's really remarkable.
Like is anyone here feel better at
writing software than GPT-5.4?
Oh.
All right, writing kernels. Um so, even
there we're seeing massive gains from
Exactly. We're And for some of our
internal results, um that
we're really seeing if you pour the
right kinds of of
you know, if you have the right setup
for your problem, then you're able to
get really massive results out of very
low-level, um, even low-level tasks. And
just to give you one example of how
things have been trending, um,
one of my systems engineers, also very
similar, was like, "Hey, like, I haven't
been able to get value out of the models
for GPT-5 or 5.1,
for 5.2 as well." For 5.3, he on a lark
had prepared this design document for a
very complicated systems optimization he
was about to do.
He
handed it over to the model, went to
sleep, waking up intending to like give
this to his team to work on for the next
week.
And when he woke up, it was done.
That the model had actually
implemented the initial spec, had seen
that it was slow, had added
instrumentation, had actually run the
code, used a profiler to figure out
where things were slow, and iterated
multiple times until it got into an
optimized result. And like, like, that
is incredible. That's where we are.
And so, how what would you advise all
startups here to do? Because the models
keep getting more and more capable.
They're kind of, uh,
I've asked this, uh, when Sam was here
in the past, and, you know, what if
you're building today, do you need to
rebuild in 2 years when a new model
comes out? Because all the functionality
and all the capabilities all change
around you.
Um, do you need to make sure that you're
not in OpenAI's way because
you're going to roll, you're just going
to run over for startups because the
models are so much more capable.
Um, how how would you recommend the, uh,
a set of, um, startup founders to
to build in this environment? Well,
first of all, I would say to lean in.
The tools right now have become
incredibly useful. And if you look even
over the course of December, I think
that we went from these agentic coding
tools being like, you know, they're like
writing 20% of your code to writing 80%
of your code. Which means they go from
being kind of a side show to being the
main thing that you're doing. And I
think we're doing that across all of
the work that people do with computers,
all computer work this year. And you can
look at the recent progress on Codex.
It's really changing from a tool for
software engineers to a tool for anyone
who's doing work with a computer. And
just over the past week, we've released
[snorts] a bunch of features that just
make it so much more powerful and
capable. Um and like one thing we just
announced today is a new tool called
Chronicle that plugs into the Codex,
where it actually can see everything
you're doing with your computer and can
form memories of what's going on. And so
you ask it a question, you just it
instantly knows what you're talking
about. You're like, "Huh, what was I
doing 5 minutes ago?" It knows, right?
You're like, "Oh, what was this person
talking about?" It knows. It's To me, it
was this real wake-up call to realize
you spend so much of your effort right
now just explaining your computer what's
going on. Like, why are you explaining
to your computer what's going on? That
makes no sense. And so I think what's
going to happen over upcoming years is
the models are going to get much more
capable, will have better harnesses,
will be able to be able to solve harder
and harder problems, come up with new
knowledge, all of these things. But
there is a one-time shift that's
happening now, which is really about
context. It's really about
is your AI able to
you have all these meetings, you didn't
include the AI.
You know, that's not very nice to the
AI. Like, you're asking it to to help
you with things and it has no
information. So I think really leaning
into how do you make sure the AI even
has enough information in theory to
solve the problem and then trust the
models are going to really get there and
improve. So I think it will be a
constant cycle of improvement and
iteration and leaning into the tools and
kind of talking to your friends if
you're how they're using it, but that
there is this investment that's a
one-time investment that now is the time
to make. And in terms of like, let's say
we you you set that all up, how do you
how is OpenAI using Codex differently
than you think
everybody else outside is using it?
Well, I think one of the amazing things
about being at OpenAI is you do get to
live in the future, right? You do get to
really see the shape of what's emerging,
and we can co-design, right? We can
really change the models, the harness,
everything together in order to better
serve the needs that we see.
And a lot of the approach we've been
taking is so we started with software
engineering, and we set some clear
guidelines for example saying that
we still want a human to be accountable
for all code that gets merged, right?
So,
at the end of the day,
is it a good thing to merge this piece
of code?
Is it well-structured? Is it going to
make our codebase more maintainable? We
want to make sure there's a human who is
signing off to say yes. And that's I
think that thoughtfulness of not just
saying, "Okay, let's just blindly use
this." Or, you know, "Oh, we don't want
to use this at all." Like I think
neither extreme is quite right. And then
we are also going vertical by vertical
within OpenAI to adopt these tools
within finance, within sales, within
IT. And there we have a small dedicated
team who's really deeply understanding
the domain, working with the people who
are the experts in it in order to build
skills, in order to modify the Codex UI,
whatever it is that is is needed in
order to get it to be good. And then
that's something we can then, once we
have it in good shape, we will
externalize, and that we're able to to
ship that to all of you. And so we are
starting to work with certain customers
as well. So, for people who want to be
very AI forward and want to be part of
defining this revolution, that there's a
place for that, and I'd love to talk
afterwards.
But yeah, I think that just this desire
to say, "Hey, we really want to be AI
forward, really live in the future, and
experience what it will be like for
everyone else 1 year, 2 years, 3 years
down the road."
Do you guys structure your company
differently with the engineering teams
differently because of of the living in
the future? I mean, if you have to go
way back, when my father learned
computer science, he was just himself,
and then we had these long software
releases that became waterfall. And then
when the web happened and the cloud
happened, when these two-pizza teams,
and we have scrum.
Now that we have these coding agents, is
it is how do you structure around
everything differently?
I think we're still figuring it out, and
there's certain places where you really
see it. For example, the cost of
building a prototype is cheap now. It's
so cheap, and if you want to build a
dashboard that used to be like, uh, it'd
take like someone like a week to do it,
and you just do it now. And so actually
a lot of the bottleneck has shifted to
things like sharing. Like how do you And
so we we actually have some internal
work on this as well that again we will
be externalizing. If How do you make it
really easy for anyone in your
enterprise to build a dashboard, a
widget, a bot, whatever the thing is,
and then share it with others. And then
that starts to really put pressure on
having good governance. Like you want
your IT organization to be able to see
all these different,
you know, threads of execution that are
happening, all the little things that
are being shared around, have some
control over
data provenance, right? To really make
sure that, okay, like a good example of
this is, um,
I think people are now starting to take
their internal knowledge from storing
them to wikis. We we have some some a
really cool one of these internally, and
the thing you immediately think about
is, well, if someone has a document in
the internal knowledge base that was
accidentally permissioned incorrectly,
and they realize, oh no, I didn't want
this information to be accessible, how
do they fix that, right? So normally
it's they go into the doc, they change
the permissions, but now there's these
derived artifacts. And so you need to
make sure you have some way of tracking
through the system to say, well, this
output document came from the source
one. The source one's no longer
accessible to this Let's go and
invalidate that as well. And so you have
to start really building your technical
architecture with awareness of the way
that people are going to use this
information, and it really changes how
teams relate to each other because you
can just It really changes where the
bottlenecks are and what's hard.
Uh, do you think
team sizes going to be a lot smaller?
Are we going to have
still human software engineers in a
decade?
Well, decade is a long time from now and
the the ceiling on this technology is
hard to is really hard to internalize. I
think that it is clear that what a
company is will change in a lot of ways.
I think that we're going to have this
ability for solopreneurs to build very
incredible businesses. And so anyone who
has a vision, I think will be able to
realize it. I think the jobs that you
all have will become way easier in a lot
of ways, way more fun. Now, might be
more competitive, too. Right? Because
everyone's going to have these amazing
tools. And so really figuring out what
is your niche, what is your unique
angle, is probably going to become kind
of the most important core. But a lot of
how we run organizations right now, and
it's there's almost only one way to
organize large groups of people, where
you have teams, you have management
structures, and you have scopes, and you
have these hierarchies, and all these
things. Maybe that can change. Maybe you
can be much more flat, small teams that
can really just do incredible things.
Like, we're seeing it right now in
mathematics, where
these individuals on the internet are
using GPT-4 Pro to solve these unsolved
math problems. Normally you need a math
team, and they're just doing it. Yeah.
And my son's a math nerd. I just told
him that maybe we should be studying
something else besides math.
But I well, but see, this is the
question, right? Is if you look at
something like AlphaGo, you know, move
37, this move that just like changed
humanity's understanding of the game,
but the thing that was surprising is
it made the game more interesting and
important for humans. And maybe that
will be true for for these other
domains, too. True.
What about uh common failure modes when
you're building when you're you're
you're building with uh production
agentic workflows? What do you What do
you see as the common things that
founders get wrong and they're building
incorrectly these days? Well, I think
that
these models, they have such power, and
really understanding how to operate them
well takes thought. And so we've been
investing a lot in primitives, security
primitives, observability, having again
good governance, things like that. Um
but just to give you one anecdote that I
think is evocative, um, I asked So, I
was working with my co-workers, I asked
them to install some package that
someone at OpenAI had written, ran into
an error, I was like, "Oh, ping that
person on Slack and ask them for help."
So, ping the person on Slack.
Two minutes later, it said, "This is
taking too long. I've escalated to the
person's manager." And it actually
pinged the person's manager.
>> [laughter]
>> And And you realize it's like, on the
one hand, it's kind of a reasonable
thing for the model to do. It's being
proactive, it's trying to solve my
problem. It's like, you know, not just
sitting around waiting to be told what
to do. But, on the other hand, like, you
know,
>> [laughter]
>> maybe it should have taken a little bit
longer, maybe should have checked with
me. And so, I think that really thinking
about these questions where we're still
building up the EQ of the model. And
that in some places, it's getting very
good. For example, clicking approve,
approve, approve is kind of where we've
been. And humans are not very good at
that, either, right?
>> They just They They just default.
>> default. And so, now we're starting to
have AIs that can actually take care of
flagging, is this a high-risk action?
Hey, this one should be escalated, this
one's okay to auto-approve. And it
really makes you realize that human
attention is going to be this incredibly
scarce resource, right? The doing of
things now is easy. The Is this a good
thing? Is this what I wanted? Is this
aligned with my values, with my desires?
That is going to become the single most
important bottleneck. And so, I think
building systems that take that into
account and really think about the human
factor, like, that's the most important
thing to do now.
Another human factor, security.
Um, how would you advise people to think
about security in this world of AI and
heard about breaches left and right with
Vercel recently and then
And these models are incredibly powerful
at finding security holes. So, how how
would you recommend people here use the
models to to find those security issues?
Well, I think there's a couple levels to
the answer. I do think that this is I
think that the internet has been a place
where security has been just like a a
ratcheting important concern over time.
You think about where it started, going
through the '90s with viruses and worms
and malware and those things and we've
moved past that. Um I think we are also
moving now to a much more ultimately
secure regime, but it does require kind
of an internet-wide effort to get there.
And so a lot of this honestly is just
again leaning into the technology,
having these models they can scan your
code base, they can actually be used for
end-to-end red teaming. Like there's a
lot that can be done with them and a lot
of how we're thinking about further
models and improvements there is really
leaning into how do we how do we
actually sort of leverage trusted access
programs, how do we leverage the
community of people who really care
about being defenders and making the
internet more secure. I think that's
something where everyone has a role to
play and can participate, but the number
one thing is just sort of recognizing
that these models are very powerful, but
they're not magic, right? That they are
just like a part of the overall
resilience ecosystem and I think that we
as a society and I think every company
again really contributes to this have
something to build in terms of how do we
how do we incorporate these in a way
that results in more
assurance and more
sort of certainty on the impacts of of
whether it's a particular patch that
you're taking, whether it's thinking
about how do you make sure that you're
um yeah, just sort of rolling in updates
quickly as they're being released. Um so
I think that there's a lot of work to be
done, but I have a lot of optimism for
where this is going.
Um let's switch to speed. Seems like
things are moving faster and faster and
faster when in the world of accelerating
change. We were talking about it when we
when you
uh you were walking up here around how
how you're trying to keep up with
things. How how do you you keep up with
all the accelerating change? How would
you recommend everybody here keep up
with everything that's changing?
Well, I think this is the new normal and
I think to some extent it's not really
because of AI. I think it's just been
the trend of technology for the past two
decades.
There's more people doing things. It's
easier to do things than ever. Barrier
to entry goes down.
Means it's also much more easy to build
value, right? To have great successes.
And so, I think that really trying to
keep your ear to the ground and
understand what's changing. And to some
extent, it always starts with the same
thing, which is play with the technology
yourself. Like, it's very different to
hear AI described versus to use it. But,
the beautiful thing about AI is it's so
intuitive. Like, that's the whole point
is that rather than have the machine be
something you have to contort yourself
to, the machine contorts itself to you,
right? It's doing work for you. And it
should be something where you ask it and
does something. And so, I think that
just really trying to just get your
finger on the pulse of what's changing,
what's possible, where the models lag.
That is, I think, the core skill that is
going to really determine a lot of the
success of of companies in the future.
And then, on the flip side of that, you
guys have held up held back models to
work with security agents. So, it's like
the opposite of like going as fast as
possible. So, um
you're doing things responsibly, too.
So, how do you kind of like think about
the balance? Because you're in a
competitive environment, you want to
ship as quickly as possible, and yet
you're trying to do the right thing, as
well.
Yeah, I think at a values level, like
what OpenAI is about, like we really
want to put the power of AI in people's
hands. Like, we believe that people can
We want to empower people to build the
future with the tools that are being
created. But, we need to do that in a
thoughtful way, right? That we really
think about both sides of Here are the
benefits, here are the risks. How do you
maximize the benefits? How do you
mitigate those risks? And I think that
in cybersecurity and in biosecurity,
those are areas where we're very
thoughtful. We've been building We've
been working on these kinds of both
mitigations and trusted access programs
for quite a long time. And that what we
see coming is models that are going to
be increasingly powerful and capable in
a continuous way across all dimensions
of capability. And the
you know, we announced last week
the expansion of our trusted access for
cyber program. By the way, has anyone
here applied?
No one. Oh, I see one hand, two hands.
Okay, more of you should apply. It's
great.
We really need help because and it's
very important that people who are
trustworthy and responsible and really
want to push these models are
participating in this because that is
how that's going to pay dividends for
everyone.
We're going to have more to announce
over upcoming weeks on how we're
expanding the program, but and also when
we release models to everyone kind of
the mitigations that that we have and
how we're going to tune those to be both
to really balance, right? To really try
to bring these capabilities as broadly
as possible, while also making sure that
the ones that are, you know, that we're
thinking about the risks and and able to
have some observability over them and to
ensure that this is maximally positive
in terms of deployment. So, I think the
short answer is like it's core to our
mission. We care a lot about the impacts
of what we're doing, not just building
technology in isolation, but it is a
whole community, a whole world effort to
really get to where we need to be.
On
moving up from the models to the
application layer, which is what a lot
of people here are building.
How do you How does OpenAI decide what
in the application layer you're you're
going to build and what you're going to
leave out?
Well, people have probably seen the word
focus being applied to OpenAI quite a
lot recently, possibly for the first
time
>> in a while.
And uh It's been applied to her, too.
>> [laughter]
>> And it's it's hard because the field of
AI is one of opportunity, right? It's
like anything you're going you can
imagine is going to be great. No
question it's going to be great. And
we as a company, as a single company, no
matter how much compute we build, no
matter how many people we have, are only
going to be able to do so much. And so,
a lot of where we've been how we've been
thinking about things is what is the
sort of most focused strategy that
covers the parts of the space?
You know, maybe it's an 80/20 or just
like the parts of the space that we
think we can have most impact on. And I
think there it's very clear right now
we're going through this identity
transition. And so
>> [clears throat]
>> products that are And it's not just
about enterprise versus consumer, right?
So it's like clear we are being very
serious about enterprise. Like we're
selling to to big companies and and
building a whole muscle and sales motion
there. But consumer, what consumer is is
going to change, right? It's kind of a
very broad term that buckets in multiple
things. But that the slice of consumer
that's about not just productivity, but
about goals, about achieving your goal,
about even knowing what is your goal,
being able to elicit that and having an
AI that can proactively do that. It's
all kind of the same thing. Like in the
end we're trying to build an AGI that
you can talk to, that has all this
context that you can use in your
personal life, your work life, that's
trustworthy, right? That you can go to
it for advice, can give you useful
information, maybe health information,
or maybe about finances, or
you know, about if you're trying to
figure out what to do with your career.
Like all these things, they all kind of
ladder into one thing. And it's meant we
had to make some very painful decisions
about what not to do. But I think I
would just say that that's the aperture
that we look at things through and that
things that accrue to that singular
vision of what we want to build, you
should expect us to pursue. Got it.
Um
Do you think we'll be coding with
command lines and agents in
in a few years or is it going to be
completely changed? I mean, I think that
we're in a very unnatural state right
now for how we work.
Like we all sit behind this box and kind
of type away and it's very clear our
bodies were not designed for this. We
got our carpal tunnel and our, you know,
hunched shoulders and all these things.
And I don't think we want that. I don't
think any of us wanted that. Like I
think that we want more free time. We
want more time, but it's it's not even
about free time necessarily, right? It's
like you want to spend more time with
your loved ones? Yes. You want to spend
more time like talking to people and
like coming up with like brilliant
visions or just like what you're excited
about or just understanding yourself.
So, it's kind of like do you do you want
to be a CEO of an organization of like
100,000 agents? Like that actually seems
pretty good. And I think that we're all
going to be able to get so much more
done, but the mechanics of it are going
to feel as different as like going from
having to write out things with, you
know, by hand with a quill or something
to being able to you know, just send a
text message and have people go and and,
you know, working on your behalf on your
goals.
All right. We talked about compute. We
talked about model and security and
agents and app layer. Let's talk about
frontier.
When when are the models going to be
good enough to push the frontiers of
science, physical AI? Seems like we had
Jen Fan here. It seems like LLMs have
been a great scaling law for digital
intelligence. It hasn't been as strong
for robotics, for physical intelligence,
for
aspects of
biology and science where the problems
are probably a lot harder to verify or
takes a long time to verify.
Well, how are you keeping track of
science and and physical AI in in the
world? Well, well, science is one domain
that we're really leaning into and we
see line of sight to really incredible
progress.
And we're starting to have some signs of
life and I think it's always important
to ground in what is happening today
when trying to predict what will happen
6 months a year from now. So, for
example, we had a physics result where
our AI came up with this very beautiful
formula that physicists who've been
working on this for quite some time
thought was totally impossible. Thought
it was like maybe an unsolvable problem.
And
like it's pretty significant, right?
It's like real serious physicists who
who who really view this as a step
towards really being able to get to um
to to some sort of answer for quantum
gravity and all these things. It's not
there, but it's a step. That's much
bigger than where we were just a couple
months ago. And so you it makes you
really wonder a year from now, like how
far will we have traveled? Now, things
like biology that they are different
from physics and math, right? That they
are you got to leave your beautiful
simulated world and you know, deal with
messy reality. But I think we've been
learning how to deal with messy reality
in other domains. Software engineering
is a perfect example where we've really
realized that just building the thing
that solves competition
you know, programming competitions, like
that's not enough. Like you need
something that's seen real-world messy
codebases, humans interrupting it
different ways, like this adversarial
banging at it. And I so I think that
that on science, I expect we're going to
see a real renaissance. You know, maybe
we'll see some big results this year.
Next year I think it's going to be a
totally wild wild time.
We live in interesting times. Um I I
promised that I get you out on time
because you're a busy man. Um before we
let you leave, we got 1 minute on the
shot clock. What since
you have no time, but soon you will have
lots of time, um
what do you and Anna do for fun? Uh fun?
I mean,
same as anyone. Like like to watch
movies, go on hikes, that those kinds of
things.
Um
you know, not as much time for it as as
maybe we'll we'll hopefully have
post-AGI. Um but you got to kind of
enjoy the the ride along the way.
Thank you, Greg, for joining us. Thank
you, everyone.
>> [applause]